IBM License:

Most of the contents in this directory is IBM property and use
requires a written license from IBM. Such code will be called IBM
Code. 

There is also code separate from IBM. These are programs and
subroutines developed independently from the IBM-code.  Such code
will be called non-IBM code. Non-IBM code does not contain any parts
from the IBM licensed code. Whenever non-IBM code is compiled together
with IBM code, the resulting programs are derivative work of the IBM
code and use require written license from IBM. The source code and any
resulting programs, which do not contain IBM-code or any parts of IBM
code is separate code and does not underly the IBM license.

IBM and non-IBM code are distinguished by c-preprocessor commands
directed by the variables "LICENSEIBM" and "NOIBMLICENSE'. 
Code

If the code is preprocessed with LICENSEIBM and NOIBMLICENSE defined
the resulting code contains both IBM code and non-IBM code and should
produce a workable code. Processing with IBMLICENSE defined and
NOIBMLICENSE undefined creates a IBM code. This should produce a
workable code Processing with NONIBMLICENSE defined and IBMLICENSE
undefined alone produces only separate code. Processing with
IBMLICENSE defined and NOIBMLICENSE undefined creates dummy
interfaces, which are non-IBM code, but an irrevocable, unrestricted
license to IBM is provided, so that a workable IBM version can be
maintained maintained.

If a new program is written proceed as follows: begin with

#IF DEFINED(NOIBMLICENSE)
include the authors and year as a comment
...
Include separate code here
...
#else
...
Include a dummy interface to your separate code
...
#end if

A dummy interface can be the subroutine or function call, the definition 
of the calling parameters, then a call to an error routine 
call error$msg('this option is not available')
call error$stop('subroutine name')
stop
end
where subroutine name is the name of the subroutine or function.

If you write code using non-ibm code, it will be derivative work. Such
code should be enclosed between two lines
#if defined(IBMLICENSE)
...
#ENDIF
as it is done for the original IBM code. Note that this is not
necessary if you are already working inside such a bracket.

For code and material that is not Fortran or C-code, that are
independent code must contain in the header a clear statement that
this is non-IBM code, name of the authors, date for the first and the
last modification and a statement that a license to IBM is granted.




